# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Creating and managing Azure AD
# Lab: Create and manage Azure Active Directory tenants
  
## Exercise 1: Create users in Azure AD
  
#### Task 1: Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the hub menu, click **Azure Active Directory**. 

1. On the **Default Directory - Overview** blade, in the vertical menu bar, click **Custom domain names**.

1. Note the current default domain name of your Azure AD tenant.

1. In the vertical menu bar, click **Users**.

1. On the **Users - All users** blade, click **+ New user**

1. On the **User** blade, specify the following settings.

    - Name: **deanna**

    - User name: **deanna\@*your Azure AD tenant domain name*** where ***your Azure AD tenant domain name*** is the domain name you identified in step 4 of this task

    > **Note**: If you specify the correct Azure AD tenant domain name, you will see the **Password** entry at the bottom of the **User** blade. If this is not the case, verify the domain name you specified. 

1. Click **Profile**. 

1. On the **Profile** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

    - First name: **Deanna**

    - Last name: **Ball**

1. Ensure that **Directory role** is set to **User**.

1. Enable the **Show password** checkbox and make a note of the autogenerated password.

1. Click **Create**.

1. Back on the **Users - All users** blade, click **+ New user**

1. On the **User** blade, specify the following settings.

    - Name: **kari**

    - User name: **kari\@*your Azure AD tenant domain name*** where ***your Azure AD tenant domain name*** is the domain name you identified in step 4 of this task

    > **Note**: If you specify the correct Azure AD tenant domain name, you will see the **Password** entry at the bottom of the **User** blade. If this is not the case, verify the domain name you specified. 

1. Click **Profile**. 

1. On the **Profile** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

    - First name: **Kari**

    - Last name: **Tran**

1. Click **Directory role**.

1. On the **Directory role** blade, click **Global administrator** and click **Ok**.

1. Enable the **Show password** checkbox and make a note of the autogenerated password.

1. Click **Create**.

1. Leave the Microsoft Edge window open. 


#### Task 2: Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **All services**.

1. In the list of resources, click **Subscriptions**.

1. On the **Subscriptions** blade, click your subscription.

1. On the blade showing your subscription, in the vertical menu, click **Access control (IAM)**.

1. On the Access control (IAM) blade, click **+ Add role assignment**

1. On the **Add role assignment** blade, in the **Role** drop-down list, click **Owner**.

1. Ensure that the **Azure AD user, group, or service principal** entry appears in the **Assign access to** drop down list.

1. In the list of Azure Active Directory identies, click **deanna**. 

1. Click **Save**.


#### Task 3: Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal
  
1. In the Microsoft Edge window, click the ellipsis (**...**) in the upper right corner and click **New InPrivate window**.

1. In the InPrivate window, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com).

1. When prompted to sign in, in the **Email, phone, or Skype** text box, enter the user name of the **deanna** Azure AD user account, including the **\@** symbol followed by the domain name you identified in the first task of this exercise.

1. In the **Password** text box, enter the password you noted while creating the **deanna** user account.

1. Click **Sign in**.

1. You will be presented with the **Update your password** pane. Enter the following details and then click **Update password and sign in**:

    - Current password: type the same password you just entered.

    - New password: a new password

    - Confirm password: the new password you just entered
  
    > **Note**: If you receive the message **We've seen that password too many times before. Choose something harder to guess**, you'll need to modify the password until it is unique enough to be accepted.

1. If you are prompted with the message **Stay signed in?"** click **No**.  You will be redirected to the Azure portal interface. 

1. If prompted, in the Azure portal, in the **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** dialog box, click **Maybe later**. 

1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **All services**.

1. In the list of resources, click **Subscriptions**.

1. Click the entry representing the subscription you are using in this lab. 

1. Note that you can see subscription properties, including the cost information.

1. Click the user name in the upper-right corner of the portal interface and then, in the drop-down menu, click **Sign out**.

1. In the **Pick an account** pane of the Microsoft Azure page, click **Use another account**.

1. When prompted to authenticate, in the Email or phone text box, enter the full user name of the **kari** Azure AD user account, including the **\@** symbol followed by the domain name you identified in the first task of this exercise.

1. In the Password text box, enter the password you noted when creating the kari user account and then click **Sign in**.

1. You will be presented with the **Update your password** pane. Enter the following details and then click **Update password and sign in**:

    - Current password: type the same password you just entered.

    - New password: a new password

    - Confirm password: the new password you just entered
  
    > **Note**: If you receive the message **We've seen that password too many times before. Choose something harder to guess**, you'll need to modify the password until it is unique enough to be accepted.

1. If you are prompted with the message **Stay signed in?"** click **No**. You will be redirected to the Azure portal interface. 

1. If prompted, in the Azure portal, in the **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** dialog box, click **Maybe later**. 

1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **All services**.

1. In the list of resources, click **Subscriptions**.

1. Note that you cannot see any subscriptions. 

     > **Note**: The Global administrator role grants, by default, permissions only to Azure AD tenant objects, not to Azure subscription resources.

1. Click the user name in the upper-right corner and click **Sign out** in the drop-down menu.

1. Close the Microsoft Edge InPrivate window.


#### Task 4: Delete the new Azure AD user
  
1. Switch back to the Microsoft Edge window displaying the Azure portal.

1. In the hub menu, click **Azure Active Directory**. 

1. On the **Default Directory - Overview** blade, in the vertical menu bar, click **Users**.

1. In the **All users** blade, in the list of users, click the checkbox to the left of the entry representing the **kari** and **deanna** user accounts and click **Delete user**.

1. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**. 

1. Leave the Azure portal open.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have used the Azure portal to create Azure AD user accounts, configured one of them as a Global administrator, and granted the other full permissions to your Azure subscription.


## Exercise 2: Create a new Azure AD Tenant and a custom DNS domain
  
#### Task 1: Create a new Azure AD tenant
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **+ Create a resource**.

1. On the **New** blade, click **Identity**.

1. In the **Featured** section, click **Azure Active Directory**.

1. On the **Create directory** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

    - Organization name: **AdatumLab**

    - Initial domain name: type any unique valid DNS domain name

    - Country or region: **United States**

1. Wait until the new Azure Active Directory tenant is provisioned.

#### Task 2: Create a custom domain in the new Azure AD tenant
  
1. While viewing the Microsoft Edge window displaying the Azure portal, press F5 to refresh the window.

1. In the Azure portal, click the **Directory and Subscription filter** icon at the top of the portal page.

1. In the **Directory + subscription** pane, click the **AdatumLab** entry representing the newly created Azure AD tenant. This will reload the Azure portal interface, displaying resources in the subscription associated with the new tenant. 

     > **Note**: There will be no resources appearing in the Azure portal at this point. This is expected, since the tenant is not associated with any subscriptions. 
 
1. In the hub menu, click **Azure Active Directory**.

1. Click **Custom domain names**.

1. Click **+ Add custom domain**.

1. On the **Domain name** blade, type **adatumlab.com** and click **Add Domain**.

1. On the **adatumlab.com** blade, note that the **RECORD TYPE** switch includes the options **TXT** and **MX**. In order to use **adatumlab.com**, you would need to create either of these records in the DNS registrar that hosts the DNS namespace for the **adatumlab.com** domain before you click **Verify**.

1. Close the **adatumlab.com** blade.

     > **Note**: The **adatumlab.com** domain is listed with the **Unverified** status because you have not completed the verification steps.


#### Task 3: Delete an Azure AD tenant

1. On the **AdatumLab - Custom domain names** blade, in the vertical menu, click **Overview**.

1. Click **Delete directory**.

1. On the **Delete directory 'AdatumLab' blade, review the list of required actions and click **Get permissions to delete Azure resources**.

1. On the **Properties** blade, click **Yes** below the **<your_Global_admin_account> can manage access to all Azure subscriptions and management groups in this directory** label and click **Save**.

1. Close the **Properties** blade.

1. Back on the **Delete directory 'AdatumLab'** blade, click **Refresh**.

1. Click **Delete**.

    > **Note**: If the **Delete** option is still greyed out, click the user name in the upper-right corner of the Azure portal and click **Sign out**.  Sign in again using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription, then attempt to delete the **AdatumLab** Azure directory.

1. Click the user name in the upper-right corner of the Azure portal and click **Sign out**.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the end of the course
  
When you finish the lab, revert all virtual machines to their initial state by performing the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

1. In the Virtual Machines list, right-click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.

1. In the Revert Virtual Machine dialog box, click **Revert**.

1. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for MSL-TMG1.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have used the Azure portal to create a new Azure AD tenant, added to it a custom DNS domain, and deleted the newly created tenant. 



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
