# Module 3: Virtual machines in Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Creating a VM in Azure
  
### Scenario
  
Orders at Adatum Corporation have increased significantly. Currently, the order system runs on on-premises servers which provides other services. You have decided to migrate the order system to dedicated Azure VMs. The Azure VMs must include sufficient storage to accommodate increased volume of orders.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Create Azure VMs by using the Azure portal.
- Connect to Azure VMs.
- Attach a data disks to Azure VMs.
- Create multidisk volumes on Azure VMs.

    > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **30 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979F-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.

1. In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

1. In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

1. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

    - User name: **Admin**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Creating a VM from the Azure portal by using an Azure Marketplace image
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for planned deployment, you decide to test the process of creating new Azure VMs from the Azure portal by using an Azure Marketplace images.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a VM

1. Verify VM creation

1. Prepare for the next module

#### Task 1: Create a VM
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge and browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com). Sign in to the Azure Portal as the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. From the Azure Portal, click **Create a resource**, select **Compute**, and create a new VM by selecting the **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter** Marketplace image and using the following settings:

    - Subscription: the name of the target Azure subscription

    - Resource group: click **Create new**, in the **Name** text box, type **10979F0301-LabRG**, and click **OK**.

    - Virtual machine name: **10979F0301-vm**
  
    - Region: the name of the Azure region that is available in your subscription and which is closest to the lab location

    - Availability options: **No infrastructure redundancy required**

    - Image: **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**

    - Size: accept the default size

    - Username: **Student**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Public inbound ports: click **Allow selected ports**

    - Select inbound ports: **RDP**
  
    - Already have a Windows license?: **No**

    - OS disk type: **Standard HDD** 

    - Use managed disks: **Yes**

    - Virtual network: accept the default value (this will create a new virtual network)

    - Subnet: accept the default value (this will create a /24 subnet named **default** within the IP address space of the virtual network)

    - Public IP: **(new) 10979F0301-vm-ip**

    - Network security group: **Basic**

    - Public inbound ports: **Allow selected ports**

    - Select inbound ports: **RDP**

    - Accelerated networking: **Off**
    
    - Place this virtual machine behind an existing load balancing solution?: **No**

    - Boot diagnostics: **On**
  
    - OS guest diagnostics: **Off**
  
    - Diagnostics storage account: accept the default value (this will create a new storage account)

    - System assigned managed identity: **Off**

    - Extensions: **No extensions**
  
    - Enable auto-shutdown: **Off**

    - Enable backup: **Off**

1. Click **Review + create**, then click **Create**.  Review the **Your deployment is underway** blade. 

1. Wait for the deployment to complete.

> **Note**: The deployment might take about 5 minutes. 

#### Task 2: Verify VM creation
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **Your deployment is complete** blade, click **Go to resource**.

1. Click **Activity log**. Note that the blade allows you to search for activities affecting the VM that you or other admins carried out.

    > **Note**: The list of events should include a single entry corresponding to the creation of the virtual machine. Activities represent changes to the state of the VM that you or other admins carried out, such as restarting it. 

1. Click **Overview**. 

1. Click **Resource health**.

1. Verify that there are no known Azure platform problems affecting this VM.  Click **Refresh** if you receive a "Resource health unknown' message.

1. Close the Resource health blade.

> **Result**: Once you completed this lab, you have deployed a Microsoft Azure VM from the Azure Portal by using a Windows Server 2016 Datacenter Azure Marketplace image, as well as reviewed activity logs and resource health of the VM.


## Exercise 2: Verifying the functionality of the VM
  
### Scenario
  
You successfully deployed your lab Azure VMs. Now you want to examine their properties from the Azure portal and connect to them.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. View the properties of the VM

1. Connect to a VM


#### Task 1: View the properties of the VM
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **10979F0301-vm** blade, click **Overview**.

1. On the **10979F0301-vm** blade, review the **Essentials** section. You will notice that the VM has a public IP address, but not a corresponding Domain Name System (DNS) name label. In addition, the **Connect** button will be enabled.

1. Click **Properties**.

1. Notice that the VM also has a private IP address and the VM agent with a status of **Ready**.


#### Task 2: Connect to a VM
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, from the **10979F0301-vm** blade, establish an RDP connection to the **10979F0301-vm** VM by using the following credentials:

    - User name: **Student**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

1. Wait until the connection is successfully established.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have viewed properties of an Azure VM from the Azure portal and connected to the Azure VM by using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).


## Exercise 3: Configuring storage of a VM
  
### Scenario
  
Once you connected to your Azure VMs, you want to test creating multidisk volumes by attaching data disks then configuring them from the operating system that runs within the Azure VMs.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Attach data disks to an Azure VM

1. Create a two-disk volume in the Azure VM that runs Windows

1. Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Attach data disks to an Azure VM
  
1. From MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, navigate to **10979F0301-vm** blade.

1. From the **10979F0301-vm** blade, attach a new disk with the following settings:

    - Name: **10979F0301-vm_DataDisk1**

    - Resource group: **10979F0301-LabRG**

    - Account type: **Standard HDD**

    - Source type: **None (empty disk)**

    - Size (GiB): **128**

1. Wait until the first disk is provisioned and then set its host caching to **Read-only**.

1. From the **10979F0301-vm** blade, attach a new disk with the following settings:

    - Name: **10979F0301-vm_DataDisk2**

    - Resource group: **10979F0301-LabRG**

    - Account type: **Standard HDD**

    - Source type: **None (empty disk)**

    - Size (GiB): **128**

1. Wait until the second is provisioned and then set its host caching to **Read-only**.

1. Save your changes.


#### Task 2: Create a two-disk volume in the Azure VM that runs Windows
  
1. On MIA-CL1, switch to the Remote Desktop session window. If prompted, on the Networks pane, click **No**.

1. While connected to the 10979F0301-vm Azure VM, from the **Server Manager** window, create a storage pool named **StoragePool1**, consisting of two newly attached disks. 

1. From the Server Manager window, create a new virtual disk named **VirtualDisk1** by using **StoragePool1** with the **Simple** storage layout, the **Fixed** provisioning type, and the maximum size.

1. From the Server Manager window, create a new 254 GB volume as drive F formatted with the NTFS file system and a default allocation unit.

1. From the desktop of, 10979F0301-vm open File Explorer and verify that there is a new drive F with 253 GB of available disk space.

1. Close the Remote Desktop session to 10979F0301-vm.

1. Close all open windows on MIA-CL1.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. From the Azure Portal, delete the **10979F0301-LabRG** resource group.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the VMs. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: Once you completed this lab, you have attached two data disks to the Azure VM from the Azure Portal and created a two-disk volume in an Azure VM that runs Windows Server 2016 Datacenter by using Storage Spaces.


**Question** 
What type of connectivity can you use to manage Azure VMs?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
