# Module 4: Web Apps and cloud services
# Lab: Web Apps and cloud services
  
### Scenario
  
You were asked to deploy a web app for the Adatum Corporation public relations team. You have decided to use the Web Apps feature of Azure App Service for this purpose. 


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Create and configure a web app.

    > **Note**: The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **30 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979F-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.

1. In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

1. In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

1. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

    - User name: **Admin**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring a WordPress web app
  
### Scenario
  
Your users have suggested that they would like to post blog articles to a corporate website. You have decided to host this website on Azure. In this exercise, you will create a website to host WordPress blogs and then test the website by posting articles to the site. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a web app

1. Install WordPress

1. Create a blog post

1. Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Create a web app
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com) and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. From the Azure portal, create a new **WordPress** website based on the Azure Marketplace offering from **WordPress** with the following settings:

    - App name: type in a unique name that can consist of letters, digits, and hyphens

    - Subscription: ensure that the name of the target Azure subscription appears in the drop-down list

    - Resource Group: ensure that the **Create new** option is selected and, in the text box below, type **10979F0401-LabRG**

    - Database Provider: ensure that **Azure Database for MySQL** appears in the drop-down list
  
    - App Service plan: **10979F0401-sp**.

    - Location: the Azure region that is closest to your classroom location and that is available in your Azure subscription

    - Pricing tier: **S1 Standard**
  
    - Database server name: accept the default value

    - Database server admin login name: **student**

    - Database server admin password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Database server version: **5.7**

    - Database server pricing tier: **Basic, 2 vCore(s), 5 GB**

    - Database name: accept the default value

    - Application Insights: **Off**

1. Wait until the provisioning completes.

    > **Note**: The provisioning might take a couple of minutes.


#### Task 2: Install WordPress
  
1. From the WordPress web app blade, navigate to the WordPress website. 

1. On the WordPress website, set the language to **English (United States)**. 

1. On the Welcome page, complete the **Information needed** section by specifying the following settings

    - Site Title: **Adatum Blog ######** (where **######** is a unique number)

    - Username: type the email address of the Microsoft account that you are using for this lab

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd0401**

    - Your E-mail: type the email address of the Microsoft account that you are using for this lab

    - Search Engine Visibility: accept the default setting

1. Complete the installation of WordPress.

    > **Note**: This might take a couple of minutes. If your connection to the web app times out, refresh the Microsoft Edge window.


#### Task 3: Create a blog post
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, on the WordPress web app webpage, log in with the following credentials:

    - Username: type the email address of the Microsoft account that you are using for this lab

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd0401**

    - Remember Me: select the check box.

      > **Note**: If prompted by Microsoft Edge to store the password for the website, click **No**.

1. From the WordPress dashboard, create a new post with the following settings:

    - Title: **Welcome to the Adatum blog**

    - Main text: **Welcome to the Adatum blog**

1. Publish the new post.

1. View the new post.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. From the Azure Portal, delete the **10979F0401-LabRG** resource group.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created and configured an Azure web app to support WordPress blogs. 


**Question** 
In the lab, you used an Azure web app to host your website. What do you think are the most important benefits of Azure web apps when compared with running web apps in Azure VMs?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.