# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Microsoft Azure management tools
# Lab: Using Microsoft Azure management tools
  
## Exercise 1: Using the Azure PowerShell modules

#### Task 1: Install the Azure PowerShell modules
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge and browse to [https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/).

1. On the **Downloads** page, in the **Command-line tools** section, locate **PowerShell**.

1. Below **PowerShell**, click **Windows install**.

1. When prompted with **What do you want to do with WindowsAzurePowerShellGet.3f.3f.3fnew.exe**, click **Save**.

1. Click **Run**. This launches the Web Platform Installer (Web PI).

1. If prompted by User Account Control, click **Yes**.

1. In the **Web Platform Installer 5.0** window, note the **Install** button but do not click on it. Instead, click **Exit** to close the **Web Platform Installer 5.0** window.

    > **Note**: Azure PowerShell is already preinstalled on the lab VM.


#### Task 2: Connect to your Azure subscription
  
1. On MIA-CL1, right-click the **Start** button and, in the right-click menu, click **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

1. If prompted by User Account Control, click **Yes**.

1. At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

   ```
   Get-Module -ListAvailable -Name Azure*
   ```

    > **Note**: The output contains a list of a number of Azure-specific PowerShell modules, including AzureRM.* modules, the Azure PowerShell module, and the Azure.Storage module.

1. At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following command to sign in to your Azure subscription, and then press Enter:

   ```
   Add-AzureRmAccount
   ```

1. When prompted in the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, in the **Email, phone, or Skype** text box, type the name of the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the **Password** text box, type the corresponding password, and then click **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: The cmdlet returns the list of subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account.


#### Task 3: Use Azure PowerShell cmdlets
  
1. Back at the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** prompt, type the following cmdlet to retrieve the same list of subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account, and then press Enter:

   ```
   Get-AzureRmSubscription
   ```

1. Copy the value of the **Id** property displayed in the output of the preceding cmdlet by selecting it and then pressing Ctrl+C.

1. Type the following cmdlet, replacing `<value of the subscription id property>` with the value returned by the previous cmdlet, and then press Enter:

   ```
   Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionId <value of the subscription id property>
   ```

    > **Note**: If you had multiple subscriptions, you would use the preceding cmdlet to specify the Azure subscription you want to work with in the current PowerShell session.

1. To retrieve the list of Azure Resource Manager providers available in your subscription, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

   ```
   Get-AzureRmResourceProvider
   ```

    > **Note**: The cmdlet lists each Azure Resource Provider, its registration state (the provider must be registered before you can use it), and the list of resource types you can create by referencing it.

1. To identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute provider (which includes Azure Virtual Machines), type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

   ```
   Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
   ```

1. To identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute provider in the East US Azure region, type the following cmdlet, and then press Enter:

   ```
   Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute -Location 'East US'
   ```

1. Close the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window.

1. Leave Microsoft Edge open.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have successfully used the Azure PowerShell modules.


## Exercise 2: Using the Azure CLI
  
#### Task 1: Install the Azure CLI
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in Microsoft Edge, browse to [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-windows?view=azure-cli-latest](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-windows?view=azure-cli-latest) and note the **Download the MSI installer** link. 

1. Do not initiate the installation. Instead, close Microsoft Edge.
 
    > **Note**: Azure CLI is already preinstalled on the lab VM.


#### Task 2: Connect to your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
  
1. On MIA-CL1, click **Start**, in the Start menu, click the **Windows System** folder, right-click the **Command Prompt** shortcut, click **More**, and then click **Run as administrator**.

1. If prompted by User Account Control, click **Yes**.

1. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and then press Enter:

   ```
   az
   ```

    > **Note**: A summary of the most-common Azure CLI commands displays.

1. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

   ```
   az login
   ```

1. Note the message displayed in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window. As instructed, start **Microsoft Edge**, browse to [https://microsoft.com/devicelogin](https://microsoft.com/devicelogin), and, on the **Device Login** page, in the **Code** text box, type in the code provided in the message. 

1. When prompted, click **Continue** to confirm that you are using Microsoft Cross-Platform Command Line Interface to sign in.

1. When prompted, type in the name and password of the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. Close the browser window.

1. Back in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, note the JSON-formatted output displaying information about the current session, including the ID of the subscription that your account is associated with. 

1. In case of an error, repeat the steps 4 through 7.


#### Task 3: Manage your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
 
1. List your subscriptions by typing the following command at the command prompt and then pressing Enter:

   ```
   az account list
   ```

    > **Note**: This command produces the same JSON-formatted output that was displayed after you successfully authenticated in the previous task.

1. Copy the value of the **id** property displayed in the output of the preceding command by selecting it and then pressing Ctrl+C.

1. Type the following command, paste the copied entry to replace the `<value of the subscription id property>` placeholder, and then press Enter:

   ```
   az account set --subscription <value of the subscription id property>
   ```

    > **Note**: If you had multiple subscriptions, you would use the preceding command to specify the Azure subscription you want to work with in the current Azure CLI session.

1. To retrieve the list of Azure Resource Manager providers available in your subscription, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

   ```
   az provider list
   ```

    > **Note**: The output of the command contains JSON-formatted list of each Azure Resource Provider available in your subscription and its registration state (the provider must be registered before you can use it).

1. To list all Azure regions available in the current subscription, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

   ```
   az account list-locations
   ```

1. To identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute provider (which includes Azure Virtual Machines) along with the list of locations where they are available, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

   ```
   az provider show --namespace Microsoft.Compute
   ```

1. Close the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have used the Azure CLI.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
