# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Cloud storage
# Lab A: Configure Azure Storage
  
## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring an Azure Storage account
  
#### Task 1: Create a storage account in Azure
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the hub menu on the left side of the portal page, click **+ Create a resource**.

1. On the **New** blade, click **Storage**.

1. On the **Storage** blade, click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.

1. On the **Basics** tab of the **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings and click **Next: Advanced**:

    - Subscription: ensure that the name of the target Azure subscription appears in the drop-down list

    - Resource group: click **Create new**, in the **Name** text box, type **10979F0601-LabRG**, and click **OK**.

    - Storage account name: type any valid, unique name between 3 and 24 characters consisting of lowercase letters and digits

    - Location: select the name of the Azure region that is available in your subscription and which is closest to the lab location

    - Performance: **Standard**

    - Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**

    - Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

1. On the **Advanced** tab of the **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings and click **Next: Tags**:

    - Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

    - Virtual network: **None**

    - Hierarchical namespace: **Disabled**

1. On the **Tags** tab of the **Create storage account** blade, accept the default settings and click **Next: Review + create**.

1. On the **Review + create** tab of the **Create a virtual machine** blade, review the list of settings and click **Create**.

1. Review the **Your deployment is underway** blade. 

1. Wait for the deployment to complete. 

    > **Note**: The deployment should take about 1 minutes. 


#### Task 2: View the properties of the storage account.

1. On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **Your deployment is complete** blade, click **Go to resource**.
  
1. In Azure Portal, explore settings displayed in the **Overview** section of the storage account, including the location, replication, and performance settings.

1. In the vertical bar, in the **Settings** section, click **Access keys**. 

1. On the access keys blade, note that you have the option of copying the values of the storage account name and both key1 and key2. You also have the ability to regenerate both keys.

1. In the vertical bar, in the **Settings** section, click **Configuration**.

1. On the **Configuration** blade, notice that you have the option of performing an upgrade to **General Purpose v2** account and changing the replication settings. However, you cannot change the performance setting (this can only be assigned when the storage account is created).

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you have created your Azure Storage and examined its properties.


## Exercise 2: Creating and managing blobs
  
#### Task 1: Create a container
  
1. In the Azure portal, on the storage account blade, click **Overview**. 

1. In the **Services** section, click **Blobs**. 

1. On the **Blob service** blade, click **+ Container**.

1. When prompted, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**.

    - Name: **labcontainer**

    - Public access level: **Private (no anonymous access)**


#### Task 2: Upload data to the container by using the Azure portal
  
1. In the Azure portal, click the name of the newly created container.

1. On the **labcontainer** blade, click **Upload**.

1. In the **Upload blob** pane, click the folder icon next to the **Files** text box.

1. In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to the **C:\\Windows\\ImmersiveControlPanel\\images** folder.

1. Click **splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png**, and then click **Open**.

1. Make sure that **Authentication type** is set to **SAS**, select the **Overwrite if files already exists**, and click **Upload**.

1. Close the **Upload blob** pane.


#### Task 3: Access content of Azure Storage account by using a SAS token
  
1. On the **labcontainer** blade, click the newly uploaded blob.

1. On the **Blob properties** blade, click the **Click to copy** icon next to the **URL** text box.

1. If prompted whether to allow the web page access the Clipboard, click **Allow access**.

1. Start Microsoft Edge and, in the **Search or enter web address** text box, paste the URL you copied from the Azure portal.

1. Note the **ResourceNotFound** error message. This is expected since the blob is residing in a private container, which requires authenticated access. 

1. Close the Microsoft Edge window.

1. Switch to the Microsoft Edge window displaying the Azure portal and, on the **splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png** blade, click the **Generate SAS** tab. 

1. On the **Generate SAS** tab, enable the **HTTP** option and click **Generate blob SAS token and URL**. 

1. Click the **Click to copy** icon next to the **Blob SAS URL** text box.

1. Open a new Microsoft Edge window and, in the **Search or enter web address** text box, paste the Blob SAS URL you copied from the Azure portal.

1. Note that you can view the image. This is expected since this time you are authorized to access the blob based on the SAS token included in the URL. 

1. Close all Microsoft Edge windows.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you have created a blob container, uploaded a file into it, and accessed it by using a SAS token.


# Lab B: Creating a SQL Database in Azure
  
## Exercise 1: Create a new Azure SQL database in Azure and configure SQL Server firewall rules
  
#### Task 1: Create a new Azure SQL database by using the Azure Portal
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the hub menu on the left side of the portal page, click **+ Create a resource**.

1. On the **New** blade, click **Databases**.

1. On the **Databases** blade, click **SQL Database**.

1. On the **SQL database** blade, specify the following settings:

    - Database name: **10979F0602-db**

    - Subscription: ensure that the name of the target Azure subscription appears in the drop-down list

    - Resource group: click **Create new**, in the **Name** text box, type **10979F0602-LabRG**, and click **OK**.

    - Select source: **Blank database**

1. In the **Server** section, click **Configure required settings**.

1. On the **New server** blade, enter the following settings, and then click **Select**:

    - Server name: type any valid, unique name 

    - Server admin login: **Student**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Location: select the name of the Azure region that is available in your subscription and which is closest to the lab location

1. On the **SQL database** blade, ensure that **Not now** is selected in the section labeled **Want to use SQL elastic pool?**.

1. Click **Pricing tier**. 

1. On the **Configure** blade, click **Basic** and click **Apply**.

1. Leave the **Collation** set to **SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS**, click **Create**.

1. Wait for the database to be provisioned.

    > **Note**: The deployment should take a couple of minutes. 


#### Task 2: Configure an Azure SQL Server firewall rule by using Azure Portal
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window displaying the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **10979F0602-LabRG**.

1. On the **10979F0602-LabRG** blade, click the entry representing the newly provisioned Azure SQL Database instance.

1. On the **10979F0602-db** blade, click **Set server firewall**. 

1. On the **Firewall settings** blade, click **Add client IP**.

1. In the **START IP** column of the newly added firewall rule, replace the last two numbers separated by a period with **0.0**. 

1. In the **END IP** column of the newly added firewall rule, replace the last two numbers separated by a period with **255.255**.

1. Click **Save**.

    > **Note:** It might take up to five minutes for this change to take effect.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you have created a Microsoft Azure SQL database. You have also configured Server firewall rules to allow connectivity from your lab computer.


## Exercise 2: Managing content of an Azure SQL database by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
#### Task 1: Add a table to an Azure SQL Database by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start SQL Server Management Studio by clicking its shortcut in the taskbar.

1. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, specify the following settings (replace **servername** with the unique name you specified when creating the server in the previous exercise), and then click **Connect**:

    - Server type: **Database Engine**

    - Server name: **servername.database.windows.net**

    - Authentication: **SQL Server Authentication**

    - Login: **Student**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

1. If the connection attempt fails indicating that the client IP address is not allowed to access the server, note the IP address in the error message. Switch to the Azure portal displayed in the Microsoft Edge window and, on the **Firewall settings** blade, create a new rule by specifying the following settings and then clicking **Save**:

    - RULE NAME: **allowLabVM**

    - START IP: type the IP address that you noted in the error message

    - END IP: type the IP address that you noted in the error message

    > **Note:** Note that it might take up to five minutes for this change to take effect.

1. In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, under the server name, expand the **Databases** folder and verify that the list of subnodes includes the **10979F0602-db** database.

1. Right-click the **10979F0602-db** database node, and then click **New Query** in the context menu.

1. In the new query pane, type in the following Transact-SQL statement, and then click **Execute**:

   ```
   CREATE TABLE dbo.testTable
   (
   id integer identity primary key,
   dataval nvarchar(50)
   );
   GO
   ```

1. In Object Explorer, expand the **10979F0602-db** node, expand the **Tables** folder and verify that **dbo.testTable** is listed (if not, right-click **Tables**, and then click **Refresh**).

1. Leave the SQL Server Management Studio open for the next task


#### Task 2: Add data to a table of a SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio.
  
1. Click **New Query**, enter the following Transact-SQL code in the new query pane, and then click **Execute** to insert 100 rows containing automatically generated globally unique identifier (GUID) values into the table:

   ```
   INSERT INTO dbo.testTable
   VALUES
   (newid());
   GO 100
   ```

1. Leave the SQL Server Management Studio open for the next task.


#### Task 3: Query a table of an Azure SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1. In Object Explorer, right-click **dbo.testTable**, in the context menu click **Script Table as**, click **SELECT To**, and then click **New Query Editor Window**. This generates a Transact-SQL query that retrieves data from the table.

1. On the toolbar, in the **Available Databases** list, ensure that **10979F0602-db** is selected, and then click **Execute**.

1. View the query results and verify that a table of **id** and **dataval** values is returned.

1. Close SQL Server Management Studio and Microsoft Edge. Do not save changes when prompted.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
 
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the Azure Portal, in the hub menu, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click the ellipsis (...) on the right hand side of the **10979F0601-LabRG** entry.

1. Click **Delete resource group**.

1. On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979F0601-LabRG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979F0601-LabRG** and click **Delete**.

1. Repeat steps 3 to 5 to delete the **10979F0602-LabRG** resource group.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.
 
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you have created a test table in an Azure SQL Database instance, populated it with sample data, and queried its content.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
