# Lab Answer Key: Module 7: Introduction to containers and serverless computing in Azure
# Lab: Implementing containers on Azure VMs
  
## Exercise 1: Implementing Docker hosts on Azure VMs
  
#### Task 1: Connect to Azure Cloud Shell.
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and then when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the Azure portal, in the Microsoft Edge window, click the **Cloud Shell** icon. 

1. If you are presented with the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell** pane, click **Bash (Linux)**. 

1. If you are presented with the **You have no storage mounted** message, click **Show advanced settings**.

1. In the resulting pane, specify the following settings and click **Create storage**:

    - Subsciption: ensure that the name of the target Azure subscription appears in the drop-down list

    - Cloud Shell region: select the name of the Azure region that is available in your subscription and which is closest to the lab location

    - Resource group: click **Create new**, in the **Name** text box, type **10979F0701-LabRG**, and click **OK**.

    - Storage account: ensure that **Create new** is selected and type a unique name of betwen 3 and 24 characters consisting of lower case letters and digits

    - File share: ensure that **Create new** is selected and type a unique name of betwen 3 and 63 characters consisting of lower case letters, digits and dashes.

1. Wait for the deployment to complete. 

    > **Note**: The deployment might take a couple of minutes.


#### Task 2: Create a new Azure VM running Docker.

1. In the Azure portal, from the Cloud Shell pane, create a new resource group by typing the following and pressing Enter (replace the `<location>` placeholder with the name of the Azure region closest to the classroom location that is available in your subscription):

   ```
   az group create --name 10979F0702-LabRG --location <location>
   ```

1. In the Azure portal, from the Cloud Shell pane, deploy a template that will create a new Azure VM hosting Docker by typing the following and pressing Enter:

   ```
   az group deployment create --resource-group 10979F0702-LabRG --template-uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/master/docker-simple-on-ubuntu/azuredeploy.json
   ```

1. When prompted, type the following values and press Enter after each:

    - adminUsername: **student**

    - adminPassword: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - dnsNameForPublicIP: any valid, unique name consisting of lowercase letters and digits

1. Wait for the deployment to complete. 

    > **Note**: The deployment might take a couple of minutes.


## Exercise 2: Deploying containers to Azure VMs
  
#### Task 1: Connect to an Azure VM running Docker

1. In the Azure portal, in the Cloud Shell pane, identify the fully qualified domain name of the Azure VM you deployed in the previous exercise by typing the following, and then pressing Enter: 

   ```
   FQDN=$(az vm show --resource-group 10979F0702-LabRG --name myDockerVM --show-details --query [fqdns] --output tsv)
   ```

1. From the Cloud Shell pane, identify the fully qualified name via which you can access the Azure VM by typing the following and pressing Enter: 

   ```
   echo $FQDN
   ```

1. From the Cloud Shell pane, establish an SSH session to the Azure VM by typing the following and pressing Enter: 

   ```
   ssh student@$FQDN
   ```

1. The Cloud Shell will display a message informing you that the authenticity of the remote host cannot be established. This is expected. Type **yes** and press Enter to continue connecting.

1. When prompted for the password, type **Pa55w.rd1234** and then press Enter. You should be presented with the **student@MyDockerVM** prompt.


#### Task 2: Deploy a container to a Docker host running on an Azure VM

1. In the Cloud Shell pane, within the SSH session to the Azure VM running Docker, type the following, and then press Enter: 

   ```
   docker run -d -p 80:80 --restart=always nginx
   ```

1. Monitor the progress of the container deployment. To verify the successful outcome, at the Cloud Shell prompt, type the following, and then press Enter: 

   ```
   docker ps
   ```

1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge and browse to the URL matching the DNS fully qualified domain name you obtained in the previous task. Verify that Microsoft Edge displays the **Welcome to nginx!** page.

1. On MIA-CL1, close the Microsoft Edge window displaying the **Welcome to nginx!** page.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have successfully run a sample containerized web server nginx on the Docker host Azure VM.


## Exercise 3: Deploying multicontainer applications to Azure VMs with Docker Compose
  
#### Task 1: Create a compose file

1. In the Cloud Shell pane, within the SSH session to the Azure VM running Docker, to verify that Docker Compose is installed on the target Docker Azure VM, create a **docker-compose.yml** file by typing the following and then pressing Enter: 

   ```
   nano docker-compose.yml
   ```

1. In the nano editor interface, type the following content:

   ```
     version: "2"
     services:
       wordpress:
         image: wordpress
         links:
             - db:mysql
         ports:
             - 8080:80
       db:
          image: mariadb
          environment:
            MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: Pa55w.rd
   ```

    > **Note**: Be careful when typing the text above. Make sure you include the spaces to the left of the text (each indent should be a multiple of 2 spaces).

1. Once you typed in the text, press the **Ctrl+O** key combination and then press Enter.

1. Next, press the **Ctrl+X** key combination to exit the nano editor.


#### Task 2: Deploy the containers with docker-compose to an Azure VM

1. In the Cloud Shell pane, within the SSH session to the Azure VM running Docker, to deploy the multi-container application defined in the **docker-compose.yml** file, type the following, and then press Enter: 

   ```
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

1. Monitor the progress of the container deployment. To verify the successful outcome, type the following, and then press Enter: 

   ```
   docker ps
   ```

1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge and browse to the port 8080 on the target host using the same URL you used in the previous exercise. Verify that Microsoft Edge displays the initial Wordpress setup page.

    > **Note**: This is possible because the template used to provision the deployment of the Linux Azure VM Docker host included a network security group with a rule that allows inbound traffic on TCP port 8080. If that was not the case, you would need to add this rule. 

1. Type `exit` to terminate the SSH session and then close the Cloud Shell pane.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
 
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the Azure Portal, in the hub menu, click **Resource groups**.

1. On the **Resource groups** blade, click the ellipsis (...) on the right hand side of the **10979F0701-LabRG** entry.

1. Click **Delete resource group**.

1. On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979F0701-LabRG"?** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979F0701-LabRG** and click **Delete**.

1. Repeat steps 3 to 5 to delete the **10979F0702-LabRG** resource group.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.
 
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have successfully implemented a multi-container application by using Docker Compose.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.