# Module 6: Cloud storage
# Lab A: Configure Azure Storage
  
### Scenario
  
Adatum Corporation uses its on-premises file servers to store its data. You want to test transferring these files to Azure Storage.


### Objectives
  
After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

-  Create an Azure Storage account.
-  Upload data to Azure Storage.

    > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **20 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979F-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.

1. In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

1. In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

1. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

    - User name: **Admin**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring an Azure Storage account
  
### Scenario
  
Before you start managing your data in Azure, you should first create a storage account and examine its properties.text file.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a storage account in Azure

1. View the properties of the storage account 


#### Task 1: Create a storage account in Azure
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. From Azure Portal, create a new storage account with the following settings: 

    - Subscription: the name of the target Azure subscription

    - Resource group: a new resource group named **10979F0601-LabRG**

    - Storage account name: any valid, unique name between 3 and 24 characters consisting of lowercase letters and digits

    - Location: the name of the Azure region that is available in your subscription and which is closest to the lab location

    - Performance: **Standard**

    - Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**

    - Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

    - Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

    - Virtual network: **All networks**

    - Blob soft delete: **Disabled**

    - Hierarchical namespace: **Disabled**

1. Wait for the storage account to be provisioned. This will take about a minute. When the deployment completes, the portal will display the storage account with its **Settings** blade open.


#### Task 2: View the properties of the storage account
  
1. In Azure Portal, with your storage account blade open, review the **Overview** section, including the location, replication, and performance settings.

1. Display the **Access keys** blade. On the access keys blade, note that you have the option of copying the values of storage account names including key1 and key2. You also have the ability to regenerate both keys.

1. Display the **Configuration** blade.

1. On the **Configuration** blade, notice that you have the option of performing an upgrade to **General Purpose v2** account and changing the replication settings. However, you cannot change the performance setting (this can only be assigned when the storage account is created).

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you have created your Azure Storage and examined its properties.


## Exercise 2: Creating and managing blobs
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you have created and configured your storage account, you need to perform transfer of your on-premises data.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a container

1. Upload data to the container by using the Azure portal

1. Access content of Azure Storage account by using a SAS token


#### Task 1: Create a container
  
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the storage account blade.

1. From the storage account blade, create a new blob container with the following settings:

    - Name: **labcontainer**

    - Access type: **Private**


#### Task 2: Upload data to the container by using the Azure portal
  
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the blade displaying the newly created container.

1. From the container blade, upload the file: **C:\\Windows\\ImmersiveControlPanel\\images\\splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png**.  


#### Task 3: Access content of Azure Storage account by using a SAS token
  
1. From the **labcontainer** blade, identify the URL of the newly uploaded blob. 

1. Start Microsoft Edge and navigate to that URL.

1. Note the **ResourceNotFound** error message. This is expected since the blob is residing in a private container, which requires authenticated access. 

1. Switch to the Microsoft Edge window displaying the Azure portal and, on the **splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png** blade, switch to the **Generate SAS** tab. 

1. On the **Generate SAS** tab, enable the **HTTP** option and generate blob SAS token and the corresponding URL.

1. Open a new Microsoft Edge window and, in the navigate to the URL generated in the previous step.

1. Note that you can view the image. This is expected since this time you are authorized to access the blob based on the SAS token included in the URL. 

1. Close all Microsoft Edge windows.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you have created a blob container, uploaded a file into it, and accessed it by using a SAS token.


**Question** 
Can you change performance of an Azure Storage account from standard to premium?


# Lab B: Creating a SQL Database in Azure
  
### Scenario
  
To accommodate a steadily increasing volume of internet-based customers, Adatum Corporation has decided to store its marketing data in a dedicated database hosted in Microsoft Azure. You are considering using Azure SQL Database for this purpose and have decided to test its capabilities.

### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, students will be able to:

- Create an Azure SQL database.
- Create a table in an Azure SQL database.
- Add data to a table in an Azure SQL database.
- Query the content of a table in an Azure SQL database

    > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **20 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979F-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.

1. In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

1. In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

1. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name: **Admin**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Creating a new Azure SQL database in Azure and configuring SQL Server firewall rules
  
### Scenario
  
You start your tests by creating a test database to which you will subsequently add some test tables. You will then populate the tables with sample data.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a new Azure SQL database by using the Azure Portal

1. Configure an Azure SQL Server firewall rule by using Azure Portal


#### Task 1: Create a new Azure SQL database by using the Azure Portal
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. Create a new SQL database by specifying the following settings:

    - Database name: **10979F0602-db**

    - Subscription: the target Azure subscription

    - Resource group: a new resource group named **10979F0602-LabRG**

    - Select source: **Blank database**

    - Server name: any valid, unique name

    - Server admin login: **Student**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - Location: the name of the Azure region that is available in your subscription and which is closest to the lab location

    - Want to use SQL elastic pool? : **Not now**

    - Pricing tier: **Basic**

    - Collation: **SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS**


#### Task 2: Configure an Azure SQL Server firewall rule by using Azure Portal
  
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the **10979F0602-db** blade.

1. From the **10979F0602-db** blade, navigate to the **Firewall settings** of the server hosting the newly created Azure SQL database.

1. Add a firewall rule representing the client IP to the list of firewall rules.

1. In the **START IP** column of the newly added firewall rule, replace the last two numbers separated by a period with **0.0**. 

1. In the **END IP** column of the newly added firewall rule, replace the last two numbers separated by a period with **255.255**.

1. Click **Save**.

    > **Note:** It might take up to five minutes for this change to take effect.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you have created a Microsoft Azure SQL database. You have also configured Server firewall rules to allow connectivity from your lab computer.


## Exercise 2: Managing content of an Azure SQL database by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
### Scenario
  
You created a test database. Now it is time to create a test table, populate it with sample data, and verify that data has been added by using SQL Server Management Studio.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Add a table to an Azure SQL Database by using SQL Server Management Studio

1. Add data to a table of a SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio.

1. Query a table of an Azure SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio

1. Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Add a table to an Azure SQL Database by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start SQL Server Management Studio.

1. From SQL Server Management Studio, connect to SQL Server in Azure by specifying the following information (replace  **server\_name** with the unique name you specified when creating your SQL Database server in the previous exercise):

    - Server type: **Database Engine**

    - Server name: **server\_name.database.windows.net**

    - Authentication: **SQL Server Authentication**

    - Login: **Student**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

1. If the connection attempt fails indicating that the client IP address is not allowed to access the server, note the IP address in the error message. Switch to Microsoft Edge and, on the **Firewall settings** blade, create a new rule by specifying the following settings:

    - RULE NAME: **allowLabVM**

    - START IP: the IP address that you noted in the error message

    - END IP: the IP address that you noted in the error message

       > **Note:** Note that it might take up to five minutes for this change to take effect.


1. Create a new table in the **10979F0602-db** SQL database in Azure by running the following T-SQL command from SQL Server Management Studio, and then click **Execute**.

   ```
   CREATE TABLE dbo.testTable
   (
   id integer identity primary key,
   dataval nvarchar(50)
   );
   GO
   ```

1. In Object Explorer, expand the **10979F0602-db** node, expand the **Tables** folder and verify that **dbo.testTable** is listed (if not, refresh the Tables view).

1. Leave the SQL Server Management Studio open for the next task


#### Task 2: Add data to a table of a SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio.
  
1. Populate the content of the newly created table by running the following T-SQL command from SQL Server Management Studio, and then click **Execute**:

   ```
   INSERT INTO dbo.testTable
   VALUES
   (newid());
   GO 100
   ```

1. Leave the SQL Server Management Studio open for the next task.


#### Task 3: Query a table of an Azure SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1. In Object Explorer, right-click **dbo.testTable**, in the context menu click **Script Table as**, click **SELECT To**, and then click **New Query Editor Window**. This generates a Transact-SQL query that retrieves data from the table.

1. Execute the newly created query.

1. View the query results and verify that a table of **id** and **dataval** values is returned.

1. Close SQL Server Management Studio and Microsoft Edge. Do not save changes when prompted.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. From the Azure Portal, delete the **10979F0601-LabRG** and **10979F0602-LabRG** resource groups.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After you completed this exercise, you have created a test table in an Azure SQL Database instance, populated it with sample data, and queried its content.


**Question** 
Discussion Question:
In the lab, you connected to an Azure SQL database by using SQL Server Management Studio. What configuration change must you make first in the Azure portal before successfully establishing the connection?

**Question** 
What authentication method do you have to use when connecting to Azure SQL Database?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
