# Module 1: Getting started with Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portals
  
### Scenario
  
Scenario:
Adatum Corporation is a manufacturing company, based in the United States, with satellite offices and 1,000 employees around the world. Adatum does not use cloud-based services for any of its technology needs. Its employees are well-versed in Microsoft technologies and tools, and the IT department is fully proficient in configuring and maintaining Active Directory, and in using SQL Server, Windows Server, and Visual Studio for administrative tasks.

However, Adatum wants to investigate how Azure could help reduce IT deployment, management, and development costs. Adatum managers believe this might drastically reduce the total cost of ownership of their applications and provide simplified world-wide access to these applications. Adatum intends to evaluate which of their IT services can run efficiently in Azure.

To prepare for future deployments to Azure, you plan to become familiar with the interface of the Azure portals, focusing on their customizability and the support for retrieving billing and resource usage data.

### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Customize the Azure portal interface.
- Display billing and usage data for your Azure subscription

    > **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.


### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **20 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979F-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.

1. In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then in the Actions pane, click **Start**.

1. In the Actions pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

1. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

    - User name: **Admin**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Customizing the Azure portal interface
  
### Scenario
  
As part of exploring the Azure portal interface, you want to customize it so you can find information easily.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Connect to the Azure portal 

1. Explore and customize the Azure portal interface


#### Task 1: Connect to the Azure portal
  
1. On MIA-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to the Azure portal located at [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com).

1. If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Account Administrator of your Azure subscription. 


#### Task 2: Explore and customize the Azure portal interface
  
1. After the Azure portal loads, view the tiles on the dashboard, noting the service health of the Azure datacenters.

1. Explore different views on the service health blade. 

1. Return to the dashboard.

1. Expand the hub menu.

1. On the hub menu, click **+ Create a resource** and, then on the **New** blade, review the list of available options, but do not select any.

1. Browse to the **Subscriptions** blade, and then pin the entry that represents your subscription to the dashboard.

1. View the corresponding notification, and then verify that the subscription tile was pinned to the dashboard successfully.

1. Return to the dashboard, and then verify that a new tile that represents your subscription appears on the dashboard.

1. Leave open the Microsoft Edge window that shows the Azure portal.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have signed in to the Azure portal and successfully customized its interface .


## Exercise 2: Viewing billing, usage, and quotas data
  
### Scenario
  
You need to use the Azure portal in order to identify billing, usage, and quotas data for your Azure subscription.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. View resource costs and usage in the Azure portal

1. View billing data in the Azure Account Center

1. Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: View resource cost and usage in the Azure portal
  
1. In the Microsoft Edge window that displays the Azure portal, navigate to the blade that represents your subscription.

1. In the blade that shows your subscription, note the pie chart that shows **Cost by resource**. Click the pie chart to display the **Cost by resource** blade, which shows a detailed breakdown of resource costs.

1.  Navigate to the **Usage + quotas** blade of your subscription.

1.  Note the current usage and quotas for different types of resources.

    > **Note:** Because this is the beginning of the course, it is likely that the subscription has not incurred any charges and that does not include any resources. In this case, you will see a message that usage or billing data is not available. You should consider revisiting this interface on the second day of the course. Additionally, keep in mind that this interface will allow you to track cost of resources going forward, so you should review it frequently.


#### Task 2: View billing data in the Azure Account Center
  
1. From the Azure portal, navigate to the Azure Account Center. 

1. If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. On the summary page, review the **OVERVIEW** tab.

1. Switch to the **BILLING HISTORY** tab.

1. Click **Download usage** for the most recent billing period. Note that you have the option of downloading Version 1 or Version 2 - Preview usage data. The latter includes data representing custom tags that you can assign to individual resources or groups of resources. This helps you with identifying charges associated with resources that share common tags.

1. Do not download the usage report. To view the report, you must use Microsoft Excel, which is not installed on the lab computer.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module

1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. Unpin the subscription tile from the Azure portal dashboard.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.  

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have viewed your Azure subscription billing and usage data successfully.



**Question** 
The lab showed you how you use different methods to view charges of services and resources in your subscription. Which methods allow you to download billing invoice and daily usage data?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.