# Module 7: Introduction to containers and serverless computing in Azure
# Lab: Implementing containers on Azure VMs

### Scenario
  
Adatum Corporation plans to implement some of its applications as Docker containers on Azure VMs. To optimize this implementation, you intend to combine multiple containers by using Docker Compose. Adatum would also like to deploy its own private Docker registry in Azure to store containerized images. Your task is to test the functionality of tools that facilitate deployment of Docker hosts and Docker containers.

### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, students will be able to:

- Implement Docker hosts on Azure VMs.
- Deploy containers to Azure VMs.
- Deploy multicontainer applications with Docker Compose.

    > **Note**: The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **30 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979F-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.

1. In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

1. In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

1. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

    - User name: **Admin**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Implementing Docker hosts on Azure VMs
  
### Scenario
  
To test the planned deployment, you must identify the methods that would allow you to deploy Docker hosts to Azure VMs.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Connect to Azure Cloud Shell.

1. Create a new Azure VM running Docker.

1. Connect to an Azure VM running Docker


#### Task 1: Connect to Azure Cloud Shell.
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and then when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the Azure portal, in the Microsoft Edge window, start the **Bash (Linux)** session within the **Cloud Shell**. 

1. If you are presented with the **You have no storage mounted** message, configure storage using the following settings:

    - Subsciption: the name of the target Azure subscription

    - Cloud Shell region: the name of the Azure region that is available in your subscription and which is closest to the lab location

    - Resource group: **10979F0701-LabRG**

    - Storage account: a name of a new storage account

    - File share: a name of a new file share

1. Wait for the deployment to complete. 

    > **Note**: The deployment might take a couple of minutes.


#### Task 2: Create a new Azure VM running Docker.

1. In the Azure portal, from the Cloud Shell pane, use the `az group create` command to create a new resource group named **10979F0702-LabRG** in the Azure region closest to the classroom location that is available in your subscription. 

1. In the Azure portal, from the Cloud Shell pane, deploy a template that will create a new Azure VM hosting Docker by running the following command:

   ```
   az group deployment create --resource-group 10979F0702-LabRG --template-uri https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/master/docker-simple-on-ubuntu/azuredeploy.json
   ```

1. When prompted, type the following values and press Enter after each:

    - adminUsername: **student**

    - adminPassword: **Pa55w.rd1234**

    - dnsNameForPublicIP: any valid, unique name consisting of lowercase letters and digits

1. Wait for the deployment to complete. 

    > **Note**: The deployment might take a couple of minutes.


## Exercise 2: Deploying containers to Azure VMs
  
### Scenario
  
After deploying the Docker host VM, you intend to verify that the Docker host is operational. To accomplish this, you want to run a sample containerized nginx web server, available from Docker Hub.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Connect to an Azure VM running Docker

1. Deploy a container to a Docker host running on an Azure VM


#### Task 1: Connect to an Azure VM running Docker

1. In the Azure portal, in the Cloud Shell pane, identify the fully qualified domain name of the Azure VM you deployed in the previous exercise by using the `az vm show` command and storing the results in a variable named **$FQDN**

1. From the Cloud Shell pane, identify the fully qualified name via which you can access the Azure VM by displaying the value of the **$FQDN** variable.

1. From the Cloud Shell pane, establish an SSH session to the Azure VM as **student** by using the fully qualified domain name you identified in the previous step.

1. When prompted, authenticate by using the password **Pa55w.rd1234**. You should be presented with the **student@MyDockerVM** prompt.


#### Task 2: Deploy a container to a Docker host running on an Azure VM
  
1. Within the SSH session to the Linux Azure VM Docker host, within the Cloud Shell pane, use the **docker run** command to start an **nginx** container from the Docker Hub, making it available via TCP port 80. 

1. Monitor the progress of the container deployment. Verify the successful outcome, by running the **docker ps** command. 

1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge and browse to the fully qualified DNS name you obtained in the previous task. Verify that Microsoft Edge displays the **Welcome to nginx!** page

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have successfully run a sample containerized web server nginx on the Docker host Azure VM.


## Exercise 3: Deploying multicontainer applications to Azure VMs with Docker Compose
  
### Scenario
  
You intend to implement some Adatum applications by using multiple containers. To accomplish this, you will test the deployment of multicontainer images by using Docker Compose.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a compose file

1. Deploy the containers with docker-compose to an Azure VM

1. Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Create a compose file

1. In the Cloud Shell pane, within the SSH session to the Azure VM Docker host, create a new file named docker-compose.yml with the following content:

   ```
     version: "2"
     services:
       wordpress:
         image: wordpress
         links:
             - db:mysql
         ports:
             - 8080:80
       db:
          image: mariadb
          environment:
            MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: Pa55w.rd
   ```

    > **Note**: Be careful when typing the text above. Make sure you include the spaces to the left of the text (each indent should be a multiple of 2 spaces).

1. Save the file.


#### Task 2: Deploy the containers with docker-compose to an Azure VM
  
1. In the Cloud Shell pane, within the SSH session to the Azure VM Docker host, deploy containers defined in the **docker-compose.yml** file.

1. Monitor the progress of the container deployment. Use the **docker ps** command to verify the successful outcome.

1. On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge and browse to the port 8080 on the target host via the same URL you used in the previous exercise. Verify that Microsoft Edge displays the initial Wordpress setup page.

    > **Note**: This is possible because the template used to provision the deployment of the Linux Azure VM Docker host included a network security group with a rule that allows inbound traffic on TCP port 8080. If that was not the case, you would need to add this rule. 

1. Exit the SSH session and close the Cloud Shell pane.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. From the Azure Portal, delete the **10979F0701-LabRG** resource group.

1. Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have successfully implemented a multi-container application by using Docker Compose.


**Question** 
Which method would you use when deploying Docker hosts on Azure VMs?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.