# Module 8: Creating and managing Azure AD
# Lab: Create and manage Azure Active Directory tenants
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you have deployed several services for Azure, you must provide secure access to them by provisioning Azure AD user accounts for employees of Adatum Corporation. In the long term, you want to synchronize existing on-premises AD DS user accounts with the Azure AD Default Directory tenant associated with your Azure subscription. However, you first want to test Azure AD functionality by creating and configuring Azure AD user accounts. You also plan to test RBAC by delegating permissions to one of these accounts. In addition, you intend to create a new Azure AD tenant to use for further testing of Azure AD functionality. You will assign a custom DNS domain name to this tenant.

### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Create a user in an Azure AD tenant.
- Assign to an Azure AD user an RBAC role within an Azure subscription.
- Create a new Azure AD tenant.
- Assign a custom DNS domain name to an Azure AD tenant.

    > **Note**: The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **30 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979F-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.

1. In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

1. In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

1. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

    - User name: **Admin**

    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

1. You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Create users in Azure AD
  
### Scenario
  
To test Azure AD functionality, you must create test user accounts, configure one of them as a Global Admin, and grant the other full permissions to your Azure subscription using the Azure portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription

1. Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user 

1. Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal

1. Delete Azure AD users


#### Task 1: Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription
  
1. From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com), and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the Azure AD tenant associated with your subscription.

1. Note the domain name of your Azure AD tenant.

1. In the Azure portal, create the following Azure AD user:

    - Name: **deanna**

    - User name: **deanna\@*your Azure AD tenant domain name*** where ***your Azure AD tenant domain name*** is the domain name you identified in step 3 of this task

    - First name: **Deanna**

    - Last name: **Ball**

    - Directory role: **User**.

1. Note the autogenerated password of the new user. 

1. In the Azure portal, create the following Azure AD user:

    - Name: **kari**

    - User name: **kari\@*your Azure AD tenant domain name*** where ***your Azure AD tenant domain name*** is the domain name you identified in step 4 of this task

    - First name: **Kari**

    - Last name: **Tran**

    - Directory role: **Global administrator**.

1. Note the autogenerated password of the new user. 

1. Leave the Microsoft Edge window open. 


#### Task 2: Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user
  
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the blade of your Azure subscription.

1. From the Azure subscription blade, configure the Azure AD user **deanna** as the owner of the subscription.


#### Task 3: Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal
  
1. Open a new Microsoft Edge InPrivate session.

1. Browse to [**http://portal.azure.com**](http://portal.azure.com).

1. Sign in by using the **deanna** Azure AD user account.

1. When prompted, change the user's password to a unique value.

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the **Subscriptions** blade.

1. Click your subscription, and note that you can view all details of the subscription, including **Breakdown of current cost**. 

1. Sign out from the Azure portal.

1. Sign back in by using the **kari** Azure AD user account.

1. When prompted, change the user's password to a unique value.

1. In the Azure portal interface, navigate to the **Subscriptions** blade.

1. In the **Subscriptions** blade, note note that no subscriptions are listed.

    > **Note**: The Global administrator role grants, by default, permissions only to Azure AD tenant objects, not to Azure subscription resources.

1. Sign out from Azure portal, and close the Microsoft Edge InPrivate session window.


#### Task 4: Delete Azure AD users
  
1. Switch back to the Azure portal. 

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the Azure AD tenant associated with your subscription.

1. Delete the **kari** and **deanna** user accounts from the Azure AD tenant. 

1. Leave the Azure portal open.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have used the Azure portal to create Azure AD user accounts, configured one of them as a Global administrator, and granted the other full permissions to your Azure subscription.


## Exercise 2: Create a new Azure AD Tenant and a custom DNS domain
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for testing user management in Azure AD, you must create a new Azure AD tenant using the Azure portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a new Azure AD tenant

1. Create a custom domain in the new Azure AD tenant

1: Delete an Azure AD tenant

1. Prepare for the end of the course


#### Task 1: Create a new Azure AD tenant
  
1. From the Azure portal, create a new Azure AD tenant with the following settings:

    - Organization name: **AdatumLab**

    - Initial domain name: type any unique valid DNS domain name

    - Country or region: **United States**

1. Wait until the new Azure Active Directory tenant is provisioned.


#### Task 2: Create a custom domain in the new Azure AD tenant
  
1. In the Azure portal, switch to the new Azure AD tenant.

1. From the Azure portal, navigate to Azure Active Directory blade.

1. From the Azure Active Directory blade, add a custom domain called **adatumlab.com** to the newly created **AdatumLab** Azure AD tenant.

1. Identify the DNS records that you need to create to verify the newly created domain. Note that the domain appears with **Unverified** status because you have not completed the verification steps.


#### Task 3: Delete an Azure AD tenant

1. From the Azure portal, review the list of requirements necessary to delete the newly created Azure AD tenant. 

1. Ensure that all requirements are satisfied. 

1. Delete the newly created Azure AD tenant.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the end of the course
  
When you finish the lab, revert all virtual machines to their initial state by performing the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

1. In the Virtual Machines list, right-click **10979F-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.

1. In the Revert Virtual Machine dialog box, click **Revert**.

1. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for MSL-TMG1.

> **Result**: Once you completed this exercise, you have used the Azure portal to create a new Azure AD tenant, added to it a custom DNS domain, and deleted the newly created tenant. 


**Question** 
What role should you assign to a user account in an Azure AD tenant to enable the user to fully manage all of its objects?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.